What if you did know? More bout wars that they raging now
What if you did know? They bout to sort the Iranians out
What if you did know? About these laws to contain us now
Or would you rather hear flows all entertaining now
What if you did know? Bout civilians they killing
What if you did know? They shoot women and children
What if you did know? That they've twisted religion
That Muslims and Christians and Jews aren't so different
What if you did know? Bout conflict on this planet
What if you did know? Just who funded this madness?
What if you did know? Where the guns they were crafted
The rich only care if their sons getting blasted
What if you did know? The most violent of rulers
What if you did know? Who provided them nukes
What if you did know? You were blind and confused
Would you lie on your ass or try finding the truth
TV, would they lie to us?
Radio, would they lie to us?
Would you think that our leaders they would lie to us?
From the truth, they denying
Would you break? Or be staying in silence?
What if you did know? Wars are laced in deception
What if you did know? There be no tracing them weapons
What if you did know? We're brain washed every second
While most politicians evade all these questions
What if you did know? Most the world was impoverished and
What if you did know? People work just for porridge
What if you did know? Where it says made on my collar
Most likely in that country slavery's not abolished
What if you did know? The extent of pollution
What if you did know? Nature will vent retribution
What if you did know? Our government institutions
Are in a capitalist spin not attempting solutions
What if you did know? Democracy is now fiction
What if you did know? You could see in the distance
What if you did know? If truth called would you listen?
Would you fight injustice or conform to the system.
TV, would they lie to us?
Radio, would they lie to us?
Would you think that our leaders they would lie to us?
From the truth, they denying
Would you break? Or be staying in silence?
You can't believe everything that you see
Logos and slogans make you believe
That they fair and balanced, I refuse and I challenge
Look in their eyes so evil and malice
Radio waves full of deception and rage
Follow me and pay attention to the way
They use suggestive thinking not blinking when they lie
About our innocent Palestinian minds
Endless nights I cry as I stop and ask why my people have to die
Racist starvation, I'm sick of this nation
Continues to impose conditions and expect no fuckin' resistance
I'm riding yes I'm a p-stine rider
General Patriarch and I'm all up inside ya
America, Australia, soldiers ready to bleed
Its revolution now mothafuckers Time to live free

