Stress running through your brain and your running for the train hands fumbling for change, just another on the chase. Dinner on your plate but rent is coming late see your Mrs at the gate, Its written on her face. Giving up your wage and drinking with your mates on a mission so your feet ain't, hitting on no brakes. Some do it out of love, some do it out of hate, some do it for themselves, some do it to create. And shape the world with the path you lead, I see a star as an image that is far from me, and every obstacle their benefits are hard to see, but later find they're the parts you need.
Try to stand but stay braced for the fall, in that Rat Race where the pace never stalls, sacrifice, patience, face to the wall, on that paper chase, that relates us all. Just trying to stand but stay braced for the fall, in that Rat Race where the pace never stalls, sacrifice, patience, face to the wall, on that paper chase, that shapes us all.
Car tank is on E (empty) you put your baby off to sleep, who'll pay electricity, maybe next week, trying to get up on your feet, not hearing about defeat, just trying to earn your keep, without burning your beliefs, they making in the street, its hard to turn the other cheek, but is serving your dreams, worth a furnace that deep, hurting with fatigue, coercing you to flee, but every adversity makes that person you be... You shape the world with the path you lead, I see a star as an image that is far from me, and every obstacle their benefits are hard to see, but later find they're the parts you need.
Try to stand but stay braced for the fall, in that Rat Race where the pace never stalls, sacrifice, patience, face to the wall, on that paper chase, that relates us all. Just trying to stand but stay braced for the fall, in that Rat Race where the pace never stalls, sacrifice, patience, face to the wall, on that paper chase, that shapes us all. X2
Trying to stand (stand), brace (brace), fall, that Rat Race (race), pace don't stall, do what it takes, break through walls, that paper chase, shapes us all (yeah) x2
Try to stand but stay braced for the fall, in that Rat Race where the pace never stalls, sacrifice, patience, face to the wall, on that paper chase, that relates us all. Just trying to stand but stay braced for the fall, in that Rat Race where the pace never stalls, sacrifice, patience, face to the wall, on that paper chase, that shapes us all.

